WRITTEN BY HYUGA NATSU
Here it is.
THIS STORY IS A FICTION AND ALL NAMES OF
FIGURES AND ORGANIZATIONS ARE FICTITIOUS.
MOREOVER, THE STORY HAS NO RELATION
TO REAL-LIFE INCIDENTS AND EVENTS.
Do you not wear a hairpin?
Go wear that then.
I promised him,
so I guess I have no choice.
MAOMAO
Take a look, Mr. Luomen.
This kitty is smart.
When she eats fish,
she leaves the head, tail and innards.
I personally enjoy
the bitter taste of those parts.
I was taught never to waste food,
but I can't believe
he would eat the leftovers of a cat.
He hears one thing and understands ten.
I believe he is
the most skilled doctor in this county.
The reason he is living a poor life
in the Pleasure District is because
he has no greed or ambition.
Miss, what are you making over there?
I'm preparing mugwort for
Lady Gyokuyou's moxibustion treatment.
Maomao,
ask Mr. Guen for his permission first.
Okay...
Are you going to be writing today?
Yes, since I have no duties at the moment.
The reason my old man was not assigned
to the Jade Pavilion,
but to the medical office,
was likely
through Lord Jinshi's consideration.
Currently in the rear palace,
there is one more lady who
is carrying the Emperor's child.
It's Lady Lihua.
I hope the next child grows up healthy.
For that to happen,
a safe delivery must take place.
If my old man can assist both consorts,
it would be a relief.
By the way, I heard some new maids
have entered the Crystal Pavilion.
You know, since the head
lady-in-waiting we met before resigned.
I heard most of the new maids are older,
and the atmosphere in the palace
has calmed down all of a sudden.
It's good to have more experienced maids.
The rear palace is full of
young palace women,
but there are hardly any older ones.
The rear palace is a place to give birth
to the Emperor's children and raise them.
But it's currently not doing that.
If you think about how many children
the current emperor has,
it's clear that there's a problem.
I'm sure my old man
has already realized it by now.
I think I'm done.
What is it?
It's a list of concerns I have
regarding the rear palace.
Let me see.
Mr. Luomen,
you have beautiful handwriting.
That's what caught your attention?
But these sentences sound a bit childish.
Don't you think your sentences
could use more weight?
It's fine as it is.
There are still those here
who can only understand
simple words and sentences.
I see. He wants the attendants and maids
to be able to read this.
Do you think I missed anything?
It seems good.
Mr. Guen,
does your family home have paper
about this size?
That size would be considered scrap,
so we would turn it into pulp
and make new paper instead.
If that's the case, could you sell those
to me at a lower price?
I think I can.
Maomao, I heard that the institute of
practical studies was opened recently.
Then, could you ask them
if they can use this
to practice writing?
So, he wants to mass-produce these
with the students' help?
I'll try to ask.
Thank you.
He doesn't waste people or resources.
He uses everything he can,
just like a merchant.
Yet, why does he not use that ability to
enhance his own life?
I've finished preparing the mugwort,
so I will be leaving.
Could I take some alcohol to
the Jade Pavilion for disinfecting?
Go ahead.
Also, is there anything
for relieving fatigue?
Lady Gyokuyou has been saying
she gets tired easily.
Hey, my clothes will rip.
What's wrong, Maomao? Why are you crying?
Is it this?
This is not for you.
All right, what should I do first?
Should I go to the institute
of practical studies?
If I have it go through Lord Jinshi,
it'll probably take time.
I have this with me just in case...
But the last time I wore this...
Isn't that the hairpin you got
from Lord Jinshi at the garden party?
Why are you wearing it all of a sudden?
I'll wear it later.
This is... Luomen's handwriting.
You can tell?
Back when we were doing
our civil service examination,
people said that you would pass
if you wrote like him.
So we all copied his handwriting.
He had the skills
to become a great civil servant,
but feeling sorry and wanting to help
the sick homeless children,
he chose to become a physician.
Actually, right now,
he's back in the rear palace.
Oh. I didn't know that.
Is Xiolan not with you today?
Recently, she's been preoccupied with work
and the rumors of the new eunuch.
She doesn't have extra time.
A young eunuch, huh?
I know there's
not much excitement around here,
but making a fuss over them
is a bit excessive.
What do you mean by that?
At first, the eunuchs
were placed in the southern area.
But the palace women
began to neglect their duties.
That's why some eunuchs were sent
to the northern area.
The palace women at the clinic
are saying that
the eunuchs are quite helpful.
The clinic, huh?
I bet Shenlü is making good use of
the young eunuchs.
Anyways, what can I do for you today?
Oh, yes.
I was wondering
if you could ask the students
to use this letter that my old man wrote
to practice writing?
We will provide the paper.
I see. You want them to write copies.
- So you can distribute them, right?
- Yes.
A long time ago,
I wrote something similar.
At first, Luomen was writing by himself,
so I felt I had to help him.
We wrote papers together
to post all over the rear palace.
He's grown older now,
so he's finally learned
how to make use of people.
Have you written and posted
something similar to this before?
Yes, when Luomen was a physician.
So I believe it was over 20 years ago.
I remember we posted it
all over the rear palace.
"Don't use face powder that contains lead.
Avoid strong perfumes.
Don't pick palace plants
without permission."
What's written is pretty much
the same from back then.
He posted something similar to this?
What is this bad feeling I have?
I will bring you the paper later.
My old man must have posted it
out of concern for the women.
But such notices also risked
giving malicious people
bad ideas.
The palace staff turns over
almost entirely every two years.
Even the consorts were replaced
after the late emperor's death.
Who would still remember
the old notice from back then?
That is...
Excuse me.
Oh.
You're from the Jade Pavilion.
Ms. Shenlü.
- Are you sick?
- Um... no.
How should I bring it up?
Oh, I brought you some alcohol.
It's distilled and stronger,
so I think it will be a good disinfectant.
I can really have this?
Yes, I made extra.
Thank you. Let me prepare some tea.
By the way, everyone working here is
quite competent, aren't they?
What do you mean by that?
The typical work duration for palace women
in the rear palace is about two years,
but most of the people here
have worked longer than that.
Well, we're a bunch of old women.
If they entered in their teens or
twenties, they've been here over 20 years.
Is there a reason
they cannot leave the rear palace?
We were young when we first entered.
I entered the rear palace
when I was ten years old.
The other women were around that age too.
In the current rear palace,
such a young girl is not allowed
to work in the palace.
But in the previous emperor's era...
The late emperor would choose young girls,
not yet of age, and steal their innocence.
The ones he defiled
weren't even allowed to leave.
Once they've slept with the emperor,
they cannot leave the rear palace,
even if they're ordinary palace women.
Nobody took us in.
Not now, not ever.
Oh, now I see.
Towards the rear palace, the emperor,
and the consorts who were
favored by the emperor...
This is where their malice festered.
Previously Shenlü
asked me to check on a maid who had
fallen ill at the Crystal Pavilion,
as she was deeply worried about her.
At that time, I thought
she was an attentive person.
But perhaps...
Maybe it was Shenlü who taught Lady Shin,
the head lady-in-waiting
of the Crystal Pavilion,
how to make the abortion medicine.
Although not directly,
what if she used that bedridden maid
to do so?
I can't stop coughing.
Let me take a look.
Is it contagious?
Is there something concerning?
I don't want to get Lady Lihua sick.
She may be pregnant.
Oh...
Give this to Shin,
the head lady-in-waiting.
What is it?
A list of things to avoid
during a pregnancy.
If you combine some of those things,
it can become an abortion medicine.
I'm sure it will be useful for Lady Lihua.
The things to avoid also teach
what poison is
to those with ill intentions.
That's when the caravan came,
and the ingredients on the list
happened to be sold.
There's no way
she would miss this opportunity.
Why were such ingredients being sold?
Maybe some palace women at the clinic
were telling the sellers that
they wanted a certain perfume.
We can't say for sure that the clinic
was involved with all the incidents.
But this slow, creeping malice,
short of outright murder, must have
been eating away at the rear palace
for some time now.
Should I press her further?
Is something the matter?
It's nothing.
Oh, okay then.
I'll stop for now.
I don't have any proof or any witnesses.
I don't want to make vague accusations.
This is the only place
where the sick palace women
can feel safe.
I don't want to take that away from them.
The only thing I can do is
prevent this malice from spreading.
Um...
Thank you. I will be taking my leave.
If there are any books you'd like
to borrow, please go ahead.
But just don't forget to return them.
There are so many books.
For some reason, the number of books
on that shelf seems to be increasing.
It would be fine if they just return it.
This is quite
an impressive insect encyclopedia.
Someone left that on the bookshelf too.
Maybe a month ago.
This is...
If it was one month ago, that would've
been after the envoy's banquet.
Come to think of it...
This place is amazing!
It's full of insects
from the encyclopedia!
Did Shisui leave this encyclopedia here?
But could a mere maid own
such an impressive book?
Thinking back,
when Shisui was drawing insects,
she was using a paper notebook.
Plus, she was able to read.
Why is she working as a maid then?
Shenlü, be careful of that girl.
It's a high-pitched voice for a man.
But a deep voice for a woman.
He's short for a man.
But tall for a woman.
She's handsome enough to make
the ladies squeal...
It's Suirei.
Shenlü, she has managed to
see through what you have done
from your conversation.
She's sharp as usual.
Because of her,
I couldn't become a dead body.
Should I scream?
Or should I throw a bottle of alcohol
at her and make a run for it?
Don't think about doing anything stupid.
I'll hurt you if you move.
If you kill me here,
you'll be caught right away.
I'd like to settle this peacefully.
Is it an aftereffect
of the revival medicine?
After the assassination attempt
at the mid festival,
you "died" by drinking poison.
You made it look that way.
The medicine only put you
in a temporary death-like state,
but there are lingering effects.
So, what?
Let me tell you what I want.
Do you think I will listen?
You have no other choice.
Shisui!
So she was the owner
of that insect encyclopedia.
Sorry, Maomao...
Do you not care what happens to her?
What do you want me to do?
I want you to leave
the rear palace with me.
Leave the rear palace?
That's not possible...
It is. And...
I know that you will come with me.
Don't you want to know
how to make the revival medicine?
What is she saying?
As I thought, Suirei is dangerous.
There are two beasts in the palace.
One to the East and one to the West.
The military resides in the East,
so one beast is a military officer.
The West represents the civil officials,
so the other beast is one of them.
In other words, the grand commandant.
The high-ranking military officer Lakan
is the fox of the East.
A prominent figure since the days
of the former leader
is Shishou, who governs Shihoku-shu.
He is the raccoon dog of the West.
What has brought you here?
Oh, nothing special.
It's been a month since the Emperor's
younger brother attended the court council
so I was thinking
we could have tea after this.
It's a great opportunity,
so why not join me, Sir Shishou?
Me?
Although I don't have
any interesting stories to share.
He says he will join.
All right.
Let's head to the courtyard then.
What beautiful autumn weather.
I have them served in silver cups,
so there is no need for a food taster.
He says it tastes delicious.
Lakan, is there something
you would like to discuss?
The other day, there was
an attempted assassination
of the Emperor's younger brother
in Shihoku-shu, wasn't there?
During that investigation,
we got our hands on something interesting.
A design for a feifa?!
Do you have any idea what this is,
Lord Shishou?
What is this?
It's the weapon that
the culprits were carrying.
Isn't that right?
Excuse me, please continue.
This is a diagram of the weapon.
It seems to be the newest model
from the West.
Here, instead of a matchlock,
there's a flint attached here.
Which means fewer misfires
and the build is rather simple.
That is impressive.
If we mass produce these,
the way we fight will definitely change.
We can fight in a tighter formation
and move more freely.
I can't believe such weapons
ended up in the hands of someone
targeting the emperor's brother...
I wonder how they
got their hands on these?
I wonder?
Isn't it your job to investigate that?
You can say that, but...
Well, there's been a small problem.
Someone in that department
got a little too rough with the culprits.
So none of those captured
are able to speak now.
There's no mercy for those
who plot against the royals,
but botching the torture?
That's a costly mistake.
So I was wondering
if you have heard of anything about that,
Lord Shishou?
If I knew,
I would've reported it long ago.
I see. What a shame.
Let's get to the main discussion then.
It's a diagram of the game of Go
my wife and I played yesterday.
Wife...?
Come to think of it, you recently
got married, didn't you, Lakan?
Yes, I did.
I heard the celebrations went on
for seven days and nights.
You even know that?
She's a sharp one, my wife.
Every move she makes is
like a finely sharpened blade.
I can't tell you how many times my heart
raced while we were playing.
Look at this move! I would escape,
but then she would get me
on the next move!
How long do we have to
listen to this story?
- And then--
- I apologize but...
I have business to attend to.
I will take my leave.
Thank you for the drink.
What a shame.
I'll make sure to send you a copy
of the diagram
and my commentary notes along with it.
No, there's no need to.
No need to hesitate. Also,
would you like a glass of grape juice?
The red color really stands out
in a glass cup.
Indeed, it's beautiful.
Right?
I feel like you and I will get along well.
I'd like to chat more
about my wife sometime.
Maybe next time. Farewell.
This juice has an unusual color,
doesn't it?
There are even grapes out there
with a ‘green' hue.
That's clearly green, not red...
Why didn't Lord Shishou say anything
when he said it was red?
Just as my uncle said...
May I fix my hair?
Go ahead.
I'll keep watch to make sure no one comes.
Finally, I can take off this mask.
Wearing platform shoes
is quite exhausting.
I'm sorry for asking you
for such a request.
Standing in for the Crown Prince
isn't something you get to do every day.
I quite enjoyed it.
Looking at her, she's like
a beautiful civil servant.
Who would guess this is Lady Ah-Duo,
the former high-ranking consort?
The fox was so eccentric
that it made the raccoon dog seem normal.
No one stands a chance
against the General.
He seems to have a soft spot
for his wife though.
Yes, and his daughter too.
To think she's the General's daughter...
But isn't he scrambling to deal with
the situation with that girl?
The eunuch, Jinshi.
To think she would go missing...
NEXT EPISODE PREVIEW
The next episode is
"The Village of Foxes."
Subtitle translation by: Melissa Nishizaki